ALL RIGHT NOW LET'S SEE IF WE CAN GET THIS GUY moving around.
If we go back into our players script what we can do is create another couple of variables one for our
speed and one for our turn speed.
So up here let's create another public variable here and let's make it a float and let's call it speed
and let's make this equal to I really don't know.
We're just gonna have to try it and see what's going to work what speed is going to work and when we
create these public variables.
What happens is they become available to us in the inspector.
So let me save this.
And if we go to our player idol you can see that over here those public variables show up as adjustable
settings over here in the inspector.
So we'll be able to change our speed or gravity jump force whatever we need here as we test our character.
All right let's go back to that player script again.
And we also need turn speed so let's create a public float we'll call it turn speed and we'll set this
to I don't know 50 as well we'll just go with that press control act to save it.
And now down here in the update function we need to apply those speed variables when we run.
So what let's do is write in here we can say that that move direction that we created earlier should
transform
forward when we get input from the vertical input.
So let me show you what I mean by this.
What unity will do.
Well before I do that let me just add.
Times speed.
Here we go so if we come over here into unity and we go to edit project settings and we look at our
inputs here let me open this window up just a little bit scroll down the axes we can see that that vertical
here actually coincides to the up and down arrows on the keyboard.
So when we put in vertical and we go back to that script here when we put in vertical what we're saying
is look for input from the up or the down arrows.
And when you get that input move it forward at the speed of this speed variable.
That's all we're doing here.
We're just using Unity's preset names for the inputs and likewise for horizontal.
You can see here that we've got the left and the right keys as well.
All right.
So let me close that go back to our script and so to use that horizontal what we can do is we can say
that we can turn if we get input get access from anything that is by default part of that horizontal
input we go so we can just say the turn is going to be acquired from those horizontal inputs and lastly
we can say that we want to turn in what axis.
So if we get input from those horizontal keys the left or the right around which axis are we going to
turn so we can say transform rotate and here we need to plug in the three different axes so the axes
are X Y and Z.
So we want to turn around the y axis so we can have the x and z be zero but the y we want to turn and
multiply it by that turn speed
and multiply it by that time dot delta time so it turns at a constant rate and doesn't fluctuate with
the variable frame rate time dot delta time.
And there we go.
So this right here should allow us to move forward at the variable speed and also turn in the y axis.
So let's copy this.
Control C analysts move this down into the else right down here and since the else is the idol when
we aren't moving at all.
Let's change the speed to zero so we want to be able to do all of this but just not move forward.
All right let's give this a try.
I'm in a press control.
Best to save the script and now let's go back to unity and I want to do a couple things before I begin
testing the movement.
First of all this big white plane isn't real good for seeing movement.
We need something on the plane some sort of texture so we can see that we're moving across it easily.
And what I've done is I've dragged into my textures folder.
This checkerboard pattern and I'm just going to drag it and drop it onto that ground plane and we go
so now we have something that we can see the movement a little easier.
I'm going to select it and then come over here to the shader and I want to change the tiling here from
from one to five by five.
Yeah.
That makes it a little bit smaller.
So now we'll be able to see the movement across the plane a little bit easier.
Secondly I really don't need this camera parentage to my character anymore.
So I'm going it's going to take this and drag this out of that hierarchy and here it is now here.
But I really want the camera to follow the character as he moves around and the great thing about the
standard assets that we downloaded from the asset store a couple of videos ago is that it has this camera's
folder in it.
And then if we go to prefabs it's got this multi-purpose camera rig.
And this is pretty cool.
So I'm just gonna click and drag this into the hierarchy and you can see there's the camera there.
Now we can't have two cameras in the scene at the same time so I'm going to take this main camera and
hide it just uncheck it here.
So we only have this one as part of the camera rig.
Now the cool thing about this is if you look over here it has a feature to auto target anything that
is tagged as player can see the tags up here.
So if we select our player Idol and come up here to tags it's currently UN tagged but if we tag it as
a player.
Now this multi-purpose camera rig will automatically point the camera at it and follow it.
All right.
So let's give it a try to come up here and hit the play button
and now when we hit the up arrow.
Wow.
And there he goes.
He's really fast.
Let's slow him down some.
I'll hit the play button again and if we choose the player Idol we can come over here into the script
and this speed is way too fast.
So let's maybe take this down to 10 and see how that works we'll hit the play button again and now let's
hit the up arrow.
There he goes a little bit better but he's still pretty fast.
I mean hit the play button again and let's change it to let's try.
Let's try it six and for the turn speed I'm going to take this up to maybe 60.
Let's try this so I'll hit the play button again.
Here we go.
So I mean hit the up arrow and the left arrow.
This isn't bad.
And whoa.
There he goes.
I'd better turn it off.
Let's try this again.
Actually what I'm going to do is I'm going to hit the play button again and let's try and adjust these
while the game is on.
See if that works.
So let's take the turn speed up to 100 and I'll click back into the game view and then I'll hit the
up arrow.
And now that kind of turns a little bit quicker that's a little better.
All right.
And he can jump.
Yeah.
That's pretty good.
This feels a little bit better this bit of the turn is pretty good.
The jump isn't high enough is it.
So let's take the jump force.
Back up too.
Well let's take it back up to 10.
Let's try this click back here up arrow it turns pretty well.
You can see that face animation kick off when he jumps.
Good.
Yeah I like the jump like that it's pretty it's pretty high but I like it yeah.
I think we're doing pretty well.
So what have we got here we've got a jump force at 10 speed at 6 turn speed at 125 so let me turn off
the game.
So here we had 10 and 6 and 125.
Well there's a last few things that we could do to finish up here.
I think one thing we should do is create a prefab of our player.
Remember when we brought in our multipurpose camera rig and the character from the standard assets they
were all in prefabs folders like the character third person prefab.
Right.
And what these are are just game objects that store all of your predefined settings components scripts
all into one game objects.
So we don't have to do it again every time we drag the player into a scene.
So what we could do is go back to our assets here and we could select our player idle and we could just
drag this from here down into the assets folder to create a prefab.
We'll just take this drag it down and there we go.
And it asks us would we like to create an original or a variant.
And I'm going to create an original.
So let's just do that there.
And in addition what we can do is we could grab this ground plane as well.
It's got a material and a texture and a size maybe we want it this same way in a new level.
So we could take our ground plane and drag it down here and it automatically becomes a prefab.
Now we could take these two in the hierarchy and delete them like this.
And now we can just take these and drag them in here's our ground plane and here's our character and
all the settings have been saved in those so if we hit play.
There we go.
It all it all works just the same as it did before.
So creating prefabs is a great way to save all your settings save all your work so you can take this
character or any game asset into other scenes or levels.